Heat Generating Device: System based heat generating unit is 
implemented to generate and vary the heat as per required for analysing the 
speed of fan with respect to change in temperature.
• Fan Induced and Nominal Convective Heat Transfer: The additional fan 
speed increases the cooling of the device using convection, reducing the 
temperature increase of the device.
• Conductive Heat Transfer: This block is responsible for transferring the 
heat by conduction through a layer of material. This transfer is based on 
Fourier law and is directly proportional to the material thermal 
conductivity, area normal to the heat flow direction, temperature 
difference, and is inversely proportional to the thickness of the layer. 
• Positive Supply Rail: This block represents an ideal positive supply rail. 
Value of this parameter is set to 12V with respect to Electrical Reference 
Block. 
• Thermistor: This block represents an NTC thermistor having B-parameter 
equation where temperature is governed by equation. m*c*dT/dt = Q 
6
where Q is the net heat flow into port A, m is the mass and c are the lumped 
specific heat capacity. 
• Resistor: The voltage-current (V-I) relationship for a linear resistor is in 
general represented as V=I*R, where R is the constant resistance in ohms. 
The positive and negative terminals of the resistor are denoted by the + and 
- signs respectively.
• Solver Configuration: This represents solver settings to be used for 
simulation. Various parameters involved in it are tolerance value, solver 
type and algebra to be used, iterations etc.
• Controlled PWM Voltage: This block is a Pulse-Width Modulated (PWM) 
voltage source across its PWM and REF ports that depends on the reference 
voltage Vref across its +ref and -ref ports. The output voltage amplitude is 
set by the Output voltage amplitude. 
• H-Bridge: This block represents an H-bridge motor driver. This block can 
also be driven by the Controlled PWM Voltage block in PWM or Averaged 
mode. In PWM mode, the motor is under power if the PWM port voltage 
V is above the Enable threshold voltage. 
• DC Motor: This block represents a DC motor having the electrical and 
torque characteristics with no electromagnetic energy are lost, and hence 
the back emf and torque constants have the same numerical value when in 
SI units. 
• Aerodynamic Drag: The block represents an ideal source of torque 
generation at its terminals which is proportional to the input physical 
signal.
• Rotational Motion Sensor: The block represents an ideal mechanical 
rotational motion sensor, that is, a device that converts variable measured 
between two mechanical rotational nodes into a control signal proportional 
to angular velocity or angle. 
• Fan Inertia: The block is an ideal mechanical rotational inertia which has 
one mechanical rotational conserving port. 
• PS- Simulink Converter: This block is converting the input Physical Signal 
to a unitless Simulink output signal.
